High in this video we're going to continue our discussion on integers and in this case we're going to
look at the different operations that we can do with integers.
So vintages support all the standard arithmetic operations that we used to like addition subtraction
multiplication division and even exponents using this double standard notation.
But what is the resulting type of each operation is something that we should ask ourselves.
In other words if we add two integers What do we get back.
Well we get an integer back that kind of makes sense three plus four is seven.
They're both integers 7 as integer.
That's fine and subtraction will work the same way.
Multiplication will work the same way if you multiply two ints you get an int back and if you might
you know if you take the exponent of one into another again you'll get an integer back 2 to the power
of two is for which you know they're all integers.
So that kind of makes sense but division is a little bit different.
Division will always return a float.
Now it's pretty obvious when we do something like three divided by four right.
That 0.75.
So we can't expect 0.75 to be an integer data type and it's going to have to be a float which is what
Python will return but maybe not so obvious is that if you do 10 divided by two.
Well yes the answer is five.
Technically it's an integral number but it will still get returned as a float type.
I will see that in the code section so Division will always return a float.
So that gets us to two more operators that we have when we're dealing with integers.
So first let's take a look back to long division.
And remember that from our grade school and that's when you wanted to divide you know you had a fraction
like 155 over four and you did long division on that.
We at that time you didn't have a concept of a decimal point and numbers after the decimal point everything
was working of integers.
So let's take a look at that.
Right.
So first just some terminology the top number here is called the numerator.
The bottom here is called the denominator.
So we're going to take a 155 divided by four.
We're going to take that long division approach.
So 4 goes into 15 three times so that's 12.
So that leaves us with three.
Bring down the five we have 35.
Once more four goes into thirty five at most eight times which is a value of 32.
We're left with three and four doesn't go into three.
That's it.
We're done with a long division.
And so we would write down our answer and say well 155 divided by four is 38 with remainder three.
So we can also put it another way.
And this is going to be the more important way of rephrasing this statement here which is that 155 is
four times thirty eight plus three.
So 155.
Right.
Is four times the number 38 Plus the remainder.
So we're going to give this name.
Essentially we're going to say we're going to define some operator that we denote by a double slash
or double division 155 slash slash.
For that we'll return that number 38 and we're going to define another operator.
This percent sign here.
So one 55 percent for will return that remained a turn.
So if we use that notation then we get that 155 is four times this expression here plus this expression.
This expression will evaluate to 38.
And this one will evaluate to three.
So four times thirty eight plus three.
We get 155 back.
So this operator here is called the floor division which I'm just going to say Divx for short but it's
a you know it's an integer division.
But more specifically it's a flow of division right.
That's the name of that operation and this operation hit this operator here is called the Martillo operator
which I'll just show usually as maade.
So we'll have div and maade as these two operators slash slash and that percent sign.
And the thing is about these two operators that they always satisfy.
Exactly that equation that we saw here.
So in general they always satisfy this equation.
Where n means the numerator and D means the denominator.
So we have the numerator like 155 is equal to d the denominator.
Like for in this case times n Dev D 155 the full plus and mod d 155 mod 4.
So this is an important equation because that will come back again and again as we discussed the div
in the mud operators so forth.
What is flawed division.
Exactly what do we mean by floor division right.
We gave it a name we gave it a symbol.
But what is it exactly.
Well first we have to define what the floor of a number is and we can take the floor of any real number.
Right.
It's not necessarily of an integer.
So the floor of a real number is the largest integer less than or equal to a.
And that's really important to understand that.
And you'll see why in a bit.
But it is the largest in the standard number order rights.
If you draw out on a number line then you look at the number on the number line and you find the largest
which means to the left of it the largest number less than the largest integer number less than or equal
to the number you're looking at.
OK.
So for example the floor of 3.1 for well the largest integer less than 3.1 for is 3.
Same thing with one point nine nine nine nine.
The largest integer less than 1 point nine nine nine nine is one k the floor of two.
Well it's two right.
Because the largest integer less than or equal to two is to itself but watch out for negative numbers.
This is where the definition is important.
What's the floor of minus three point one.
Well you might be tempted to say what was minus three right with truncating.
Here we're just taking the integer portion of the number and throwing away the decimal points.
But what comes after the decimal point.
That's not quite how it works.
Let's look at the number line right here's another line he negative 4 and is negative 3 and the number
the within that we're interested in is minus 3.1.
That's between those two values.
Now if we look at the definition again a floor it is the largest integer less than or equal to eight.
Well what's the largest integer less than minus 3.1 minus for it's not minus three minus three is greater
than minus 3.1 so minus 4 is in fact the floor of minus 3.1.
So that's an important distinction.
Floor is not the same thing as truncation.
It is the same when you're dealing with positive numbers but not have negative numbers.
And that has an impact on the not operators that we saw so we get to our definition of flawed division
a div B is the floor of a divided by B.
Right so if you get some they divided by B that gives zero minus 3.1 as a result then you take the floor
which will be negative 4 and you will get minus 4 as your floor.
Now let's look back at that formula again.
Right.
Remember that 40 that we that we wrote down that we said are not using any of these anymore it doesn't
really matter.
Let's look at an example that's like eight to 135 and be equal to four.
So 135 divided by four is thirty three point seven five or thirty three and three quarters.
Right.
So now if we did long division we would say only 35 divided by four is thirty three with a remainder
of three so 135 four is thirty three.
Right.
Because so 3.7 5 floor is 33 135 not four.
Turns out to be three that remainder that we have.
And in fact if we look at this equation again and I'll bring up that equation many times then we have
four times 135 four plus 135 mug full.
Right.
For being that denominator over here.
So we get it four times thirty three plus three which is 132 plus three which is 135 which is indeed
equal to a.
So now let's deal with negative numbers.
This is where things get a little crazy.
So again I want to reiterate a div B is not the integer portion of a divided by B it is not the truncation
of a divided by B.
It is the floor of a divided by B.
Now if a and b are both greater than zero then yeah it is the same thing but not when we are dealing
with negative numbers.
So let's look at an example let's say a is minus 135 negative 1 3 5 and B is 4.
So same as before except we've made a negative.
So now if we do the division Well that's minus thirty three point seventy five.
So you know we might say it's minus 33 in three quarters so minus 135 divided by four in div..
Right.
One might wonder if I divided by four is minus thirty three point seventy five.
But the div is the floor of that the floor of this number is negative 34.
Compare that to when we had 135 of four which was 33 case already we see there's a difference in the
div value.
What about the mud.
We say minus 135 not four.
We get a 1 whereas before we got a three.
Now remember that the model is not the remainders.
Right in the sense that it's not 3.
It's just something that has to satisfy that equation.
But we've talked about it and I'll keep bringing up again and again the divin model operators are defined
and calculated in such a way that this equation here always holds so let's check let's make sure it
holds in this case.
Well we have four right.
The B was four times minus 135 div 4 plus minus 135 mudflow.
So if we do that calculation here we have four times minus 34 plus one.
And so we get minus 136 plus 1 which is minus 135 and that matches the minus 135.
So as you can see thats how the divin mud operators work and they work in such a way that that equation
is always satisfied.
So let's expand this a little further.
Let's take equal to 14 and be equal to 4 of 13 divided by 4 is 3.2 vine.
Now let's take equal to negative 13 and be equal to still four.
Now we've just made a negative.
Well minus 13 divided by 4 is minus 3.5.
Let's take a look at when we stick the negative sign not with a bid with B.
So we leave at 13 and we may be equal to negative 4 then 13 divided by negative four is still minus
3.5.
Right.
When would the regular division it doesn't matter if you put the negative sign you know in the numerator
and denominator and lastly let's look at when both of them have a negative sign.
Now we know that we do regular division.
The negative signs cancel out.
And in fact it's still a positive.
3.2 Vire.
Just like we had here.
OK.
Now let's look at the Duve right.
Well the deal for 13 and 4 is 3 right 4 goes into 13.
Three times this year also it's going to be 3.2 fives floor which is three here the div is going to
be the floor of minus three point to five which is going to be minus 4.
What about the div here.
Well same thing it's going to be the floor of minus 3.5 which is negative 4.
And here the the div is going to be the floor of 3.2 5 which gets us back to 3.
So as you can see this looks you know this kind of follows the signs that we had with just regular division
as well.
Now let's look however the mud's are affected.
Well 13 March 4 is 1 minus 13 month 4 is actually 3.
And we'll see that when we check the equation 13 MMOG negative 4 is negative 3.
So you'll notice how this mod is basically carrying the sign of the second portion here.
Right of the denominator if you want to think of it as a fraction for 13 Mont. negative 4 is negative
3.
And here's another interesting one minus 13 month negative four is negative 1 it's carrying the sign
of this second one here.
And in each of these cases it satisfies that equation.
Let's check.
So in the first one we have four times 13 the full plus 13 model which is 12 plus 1 which is 13 so we're
good matched for about the next one.
Well four times minus 13 the full plus minus 13 month for is minus 13.
It matches minus 13 we're good.
And the same thing here that matches as well.
And lastly this one here.
Right.
We have minus four times minus 13.
Minus four plus minus 13 Mada month for a negative 4 gives us minus 12 minus 1 which is minus the teen.
And again that matches.
All right.
So when you get when you start dealing with negative numbers it's a lot more complicated you have to
be a little careful with that.
OK.
So now let's look at some code and check this out.
So the first thing we're going to look at is the types when we do these arithmetic operations so we
can look at the type of one plus one.
And that gives us an hint.
Right.
We expect that that we do one times while it's two maybe two times three type of that is.
And look at the type of let's say subtraction let's say full minus 10 that's a negative number but it's
an integer and same thing with exponents of integer numbers.
If we do three to the power of six while that type is still in and now division is different we do type
of two divided by three.
While we would expect that to be a float right because the two divided by three is you know 0.6 6:06
recurring and it is indeed a float.
Now what's more interesting is if we do 10 divided by two right then divided by two is five.
But the type is the float.
Now we can print 10 divided by two it will print 5 1 0 right.
If we do the actual print you got to be careful with that.
It's going to format it as 5.0.
So if you wanted to print out as an end you're going to have to do some formatting.
OK.
Now next thing we should look at is the floor method.
Now the floor method is in the math manual.
It's not part of the standard syntax.
So we're going to import math.
And now we can use the floor.
So let's take a look at the floor.
Three point one five.
OK.
And as we expect it's three right.
We do math that flow of three point nine nine nine nine nine nine.
It's all three right.
This is not a rounding.
It's basically taking the integer portion.
When we're dealing with positive integers or positive numbers.
OK.
Now not so if we're looking at negative numbers you can look at three minus three point one four.
And what do we get minus four.
That's the flow.
Right now we can even look at the math top floor of minus three point.
Let's say six zeros one two three four five six and one right.
The floor of that.
Yes.
Very close to negative three and I go type of correctly it's still negative for k.
So we are not rounding we're not truncating We are taking the floor.
The largest integer less than or equal to this value here.
Now I want to sidetrack very quickly into something else.
So I want to show you that just so you're aware of it and we'll come back and discuss this later.
Let's go ahead and add I'm going to add 12 zeros.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12.
And then a 1.
Now we would expect that the floor of that should still be negative 4.
Right.
That's fine.
Now let's try this again
and I'm going to put in three more zeros.
And now the floor is negative 3.
What's going on.
Well it has to do with the fact that floats have a limit of precision in Python.
So minus three point.
And then here we had 15 zeros and one is actually being represented as minus three zeros and the one
gets dropped.
OK.
So it has to do with the limited precision that we have with floating point numbers and we'll get to
that in the video on floating points.
So just be aware of that.
OK.
So now let's look at the floor division operators.
So let's take a look at an example let's take equal to 33.
Be equal to 16.
And we're going to print a divided by the K.
We're going to print a div B.
And we're going to print the floor of a divided by B right which should be equal to a div B.
That's the definition.
So let's see what results we get.
So 33 divided by 16 is two point zero six to five a div B as 2 which is the floor of 2.0 six to five
the largest integer less than or equal to this number here.
So in both cases that was.
Now let's just do an example now using a negative number equals 16.
So we'll keep everything else the same.
But just a becomes negative.
And we're going to print out the same things.
I'm going to copy paste and here's where we get right.
Divided by B is minus 2.0 six to five a div B is negative 3.
Right.
It is the largest integer less than this number here.
While the largest integer less than the number is actually negative 3 and of course the floor matches
because that's the definition of flawed division.
Now I want to compare and contrast.
Our truncation.
Right.
So let's look at this one again.
So I'm just going to copy and paste this code in here.
And we'll look at truncation and for truncation will print math.
The DOT trunk a divided by B.
And as you can see the truncation is just giving us the integer portion of this number here.
It's basically dropping everything after the decimal point and returning to us just the integer portion
of this floating point numbers which is negative 2.
So as you can see here when we're dealing with negative numbers the floor and the trunk are not the
same thing.
And so in general Floren truncation is not the same thing it is with positive numbers but in general
you have to include negative numbers.
It is not so just a little caveat.
OK so let's look at the not operator an artist.
Again I want to remind you of the equation equals B times a div B plus a moderate B.
So let's look at some examples of this.
Let's say eight equals 13 and B equals 4.
And we're going to print out the division.
So now we've got a few more things I'm going to actually try and format it a little bit.
So 0 divided by 1.
The positional arguments equals two.
And we're going to throw in a b and divided by B.
Ok then we're going to print out the div of those two things.
So let's go ahead and say that the one equals to start format's a b a div B.
Right so we're going to print out the results of the div.
Lastly we're going to do the a mod B.
So
this way.
Okay.
And lastly one thing I want to do is check and make sure that this equation is indeed being satisfied.
So I'm going to print out is a equal to watch should be equal to B times a div B plus a mod B.
I don't have to put parentheses around this.
This has higher precedence than the plus.
But if you prefer There's no harm in putting extra parentheses.
So we can put it in.
OK so let's take a look at our results and of course I have to close off the print statements.
So there we go.
All right so 13 divided by four is 3.2 fire.
That was a float 13 div 4 was 3.
The floor of that 13 not 4 is 1.
And that equation is satisfied you can see that it returns true.
So A's indeed equal to this whole expression.
I'd go ahead and do this as well.
For negative numbers.
So let's take a call to negative 13 and be equal to four.
So we're going to run through the same examples that we had in the slides.
And as you can see we get minus three point five for the division minus four for the floor Division
3 for the MOD and that equation is satisfied.
So I just want to basically go through and make sure that the equation is satisfied in every instance.
So again will copy paste that that's and will stick the negative on the full.
This time we'll leave the positive thought in the long run that and as you can see our equation evaluated
to true.
So again that works and let's do one more where we're going to set both a and b to negative.
And when we run that well again we get that the equation evaluated to true right.
So in other words that equation was valid.
So that expression evaluated true which means that the equation.
And this is the last time I'll mention it in this video.
This equation here was indeed valid.
All right.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.